---
layout: Page
title: "Vomit"
date: 2019-08-21 00:50:34 -0400
author: "Victor Perez"
categories: [nonfiction]
image: "juxt.jpg"
---

In a moment I was awake, stomach churning and head tilting. Knowing what was coming, I frantically felt around for the remote in the half-lit intensive care unit. Then it came: blood. So much blood. Leaking through the gaps in my bound together teeth. I could do nothing but lurch and heave as I vomited blood onto my hospital blanket. There was no chance to reach for the suction tube on my left; I gripped tightly on the rails of the hospital bed every time I passed blood. Finally, two nurses rushed in to assist me, sucking up the blood and vomit into the half-filled jar behind me. My eyes were moist as I laid back waiting for the morphine and anti-nausea medication to hit the bloodstream. The nurses changed my sheets, my mother came back from the bathroom, and I fell asleep out of exhaustion.

When I woke up, I was finally faced with good news: the tube running from my nose to my stomach would finally be removed. Despite the incredible amount of discomfort from it being taken, I was filled with relief. I could breath, and the horrible feeling in my throat was gone. More importantly, I could move. While thankful I didn’t require a catheter after surgery, going to the bathroom in my bed was less than ideal. After two days, I could stand up and use the bathroom.

The first time I looked at my face in the mirror after my double jaw surgery, I could only think of how big a mistake I made. My face blew up like a balloon, and underneath my jaw was a sack of skin the size of an orange. Was this the new face I was promised after all these years? Of course not. But I was hopped up on too many drugs and barely enough sleep to make that mental connection.

Eventually a wheelchair came to pick me up and locate me to a normal recovery room. After another day of taking pain and nausea meds and drinking soup stock to keep me alive, I was wheeled out of the hospital. I would go on to vomit again a week later, though this time I was left on my own to clear out everything from my mouth. The things I do for my jaw.
