---
layout: Page
title: "Vomit"
date: 2019-11-12 05:50:34 -0400
author: "Victor J. Perez III - II"
categories: [nonfiction]
image: "vomit.png"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

_This essay was published in Malocclusion: A Post-Bimaxillary Osteotomy Nonfiction Journal, which can be found [here](https://victorjperez.github.io/malocclusion)_

In a moment I was awake, stomach-churning and head drooping. Knowing what was coming, I frantically felt around for the phone remote in the half-lit intensive care unit. Then it came: blood. So much blood. Leaking through the gaps in my bound together teeth, filling the cold room with a vaguely metallic stench. I could do nothing but lurch and heave as it fell onto my hospital blanket. There was no chance to reach for the suction tube on my left; I gripped tightly to the rails of the hospital bed every time my _jaw_ convulsed and ejected blood.

<!--more-->

Finally, two nurses rushed in to assist me, using the suction tube to suck up the blood and vomit into the half-filled jar behind me. With moist eyes, I laid back, waiting for the morphine and anti-nausea medication to hit the bloodstream. The nurses changed my sheets, my mother came back from the bathroom, and I fell asleep out of exhaustion.

The first time I looked at my face in the mirror after my double _jaw_ surgery, I could only think of how big a mistake I made. My face blew up like a balloon, and underneath my _jaw_ was a sack of meat the size of an orange. Was this the new face I was promised after all these years? After all this pain? Of course not, but I was hopped up on too many drugs and barely enough sleep to make that mental connection.

Eventually, a wheelchair came to pick me up and relocate me to a normal hospital room. After another day of taking pain and nausea meds and drinking soup stock to keep me alive, I was wheeled out of the hospital. I would go on to vomit again a week later, though this time I was left on my own to clear out everything from my mouth. The things I do for my _jaw_.
