---
layout: Page
title: "On Vestoj"
date: 2019-07-27 00:22:34 -0400
author: "Victor Perez"
categories: fashion
image: "vestoj.jpg"
---

Over the years, I’ve grown tired of internet communities. Once a primary focus of my spare time, the internet allowed me to connect to people in previously unreachable places, with knowledge of things I wasn’t even aware existed. Unfortunately, I found that some people should remain unreachable, and was driven away by the vile words and remarks.

Near the very end, I managed to take a few things with me. In particular, a fashion related community was discussing other, more academic resources. It drew my attention, and eventually after souring the provided resources I landed myself on the home page of vestoj.com. The design stood out to me from traditional fashion related websites; it had a simple, ad-free layout. There was a large focus on the text and the text alone, and every article had a diverse set of sources. After reading the article _[Beggars And Choosers](http://vestoj.com/beggars-and-choosers/) by Johannes Lenhard_, I was hooked. Lenhard wasn’t just talking about clothes, or runway shows. He wrote about poverty, and psychology, and how they could be viewed under the lens of fashion. It’s a rare thing to have a conversation about, and Vestoj housed a goldmine of articles just like it. I wasn’t seeing random people talk about dressing for dates, or the new streetwear lookbook they were designing. I was seeing the connection between fashion and life.

Of course, I’m explaining it in the most dramatic way possible, if only to mirror the feeling I was overcome with upon my discovery. As soon as the eighth issue, On _Authenticity_, was released, I paid \$30 for a copy and read it cover to cover. Authenticity! What an incredible subject to cover in the age of easily accessible fashion replicas. Except it wasn’t just about it clothes. With Vestoj, it’s never that simple. The essay _[Acting As If](http://vestoj.com/acting-as-if/) by Michelle Millar Fisher_ was so close to my own life experiences that it remains something I re-read regularly. That same week, I hosted a “No Limits” show at my college’s radio station (A four hour segment of whatever audio content you could dream of), and read the article _[The Making of a Star](http://vestoj.com/the-making-of-a-star/) by Philippa Snow_ live on air while _Aphex Twin_ played in the background. I wanted everyone to hear what these people had to say.

Vestoj remains an important part of my life. The website you’re reading this on is directly inspired by it. It’s fueled my interest in fashion and society, and even my own writing. I’m forever grateful for the London College of Fashion for funding it, and for Anja Aronowsky Cronberg for founding and editing it. If you still don’t quite understand what Vestoj is, here’s the words from “The Platform for Critical Thinking On Fashion” itself:

_Vestoj is a forum where academia, the museum world and the fashion industry can work together and with active communication. We write about the cultural phenomenon that is fashion in a manner that opens up for dialogue between theory and practice in order to raise awareness for fashion as a cultural phenomena and field of research and cultivate an even greater understanding for the discipline. Vestoj will exist outside of seasonally-based trends and news-focused articles. Instead we aim to encourage and champion the critical and independent voice within fashion as well as absolute creative freedom. In order to ensure that we remain free in thought and action Vestoj will have no advertising. Vestoj focuses solely on sartorial matters, bringing together academia and industry in a bid to combine academic theory, critical thinking and a bit of good old fashioned glamour._
